Greedy Algorithm


The greedy method is one of the strategies like Divide and conquer used to solve the problems. This method is used for solving optimization problems. An optimization problem is a problem that demands either maximum or minimum results. Let's understand through some terms.

The Greedy method is the simplest and straightforward approach. It is not an algorithm, but it is a technique. The main function of this approach is that the decision is taken on the basis of the currently available information. Whatever the current information is present, the decision is made without worrying about the effect of the current decision in future.

This technique is basically used to determine the feasible solution that may or may not be optimal. The feasible solution is a subset that satisfies the given criteria. The optimal solution is the solution which is the best and the most favorable solution in the subset. In the case of feasible, if more than one solution satisfies the given criteria then those solutions will be considered as the feasible, whereas the optimal solution is the best solution among all the solutions.Components of Greedy Algorithm

**The components that can be used in the greedy algorithm are:**

->Candidate set: A solution that is created from the set is known as a candidate set.
->Selection function: This function is used to choose the candidate or subset which can be added in the solution.
->Feasibility function: A function that is used to determine whether the candidate or subset can be used to contribute to the solution or not.
->Objective function: A function is used to assign the value to the solution or the partial solution.
->Solution function: This function is used to intimate whether the complete function has been reached or not.

Applications of Greedy Algorithm
   It is used in finding the shortest path.
   It is used to find the minimum spanning tree using the prim's algorithm or the Kruskal's algorithm.
   It is used in a job sequencing with a deadline.
   This algorithm is also used to solve the fractional knapsack problem.
   
Pseudo code of Greedy Algorithm
   
   Algorithm Greedy (a, n)  
{  
   Solution : = 0;  
  for i = 0 to n do  
  {  
      x: = select(a);  
     if feasible(solution, x)  
    {  
        Solution: = union(solution , x)  
    }  
       return solution;
  } 
}  
  
  
  
  Source :-www.javatpoint.com
